clips.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Clips
---

# Clips

Don't have much time but need a quick fix? Checkout out some of these clips.

## [THE GOLD STANDARD](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aGE4SOOmYlk) - Keenan Takahashi

My favorite climber's favorite climbing video. The ultimate climbing clip. It's
all down hill from here (but you should still check out the rest).

## [Beta Break](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLsfWe31L6Quop7WDY7ky711o_Jhp4LKaS)

A series of clips going over how and why athletes broke beta (did something
funky) in a competition. Watch them all. They rock.

## [World's First 9b+](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=edfw9ip9sCQ) - [Adam Ondra](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC8eNyF9eYwgr_K-Nl4gSHWw)

Adam Ondra is stupid strong. Here he climbs the world's first 9b+. Start with
the volume low, he's a screamer.

## [Highlights](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R-7BxsiS0wY) - Janja Garnbret

The competition G.O.A.T. One of the most dominant athletes of any sport
ever. Bonus, she's cool as heck. [Here's a quick interview talking about her
mentality and more](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pZCmsYxHRB8).

## [Floatin](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zIOCIRd8Mxk) - Ryuichi Murai

Narationless, short, all about the climb. And, oh lawdy, what a climb.

## [1 Minute Knockout](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_dfB2AKxAx0&t=239s) - [Toby Roberts](https://www.youtube.com/@TobyClimbing) (and more)

Great climbs, a cool competition style, and some of the best climbers in the
world. What's not to love?

## [Burden of Dreams](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SlUw8X7xuq0) - Will Bosi

Will Bosi may look like the platonic ideal of an accountant but he could win a
handshake with a gorilla. Here he documents his process sending the hardest
boulder in the world. He does a great job talking through the moves.

## [Worst Rated Gym in Tokyo](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UMs3sHLjRwM) - [Magnus Midtbø](https://www.youtube.com/@magmidt)

Magnus' videos are a bit polarizing as he optimizes for the algorithm but this
one is a gem.

It's hard to understand just how good professional climbers are. It's not like
surfing or skiing where the best are hucking the highest airs, or mashing the
biggest carves. Instead, great climbers make the insurmountable look like a walk
in the park. They'll hit an impossible move with grace, jump off, and say
something like, "that was tricky but the edge is actually pretty incut".

This video was my introduction to the chasm between the pros and mere mortals
and I hope it serves as the same for you.

## [Boogie Til You Poop](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1dJLN43G6KA) - Jason Kruk

It's special to watch the best at their best. It's also special to watch the
best at their worst. This is not a clip about good climbing yet it still manages
to be one of the quintessential climbing clips. Watch it before you show the
youths (it's pretty crass).

Commit message:

Add a couple climbs to clips

clips.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Clips
---

# Clips

Don't have much time but need a quick fix? Checkout out some of these clips.

## [THE GOLD STANDARD](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aGE4SOOmYlk) - Keenan Takahashi

My favorite climber's favorite climbing video. The ultimate climbing clip
starring a local crusher. It's all down hill from here (but you should still
check out the rest).

## [In Sequence](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aGE4SOOmYlk) - Katie Lamb

Another local crusher and the first woman to climb V16. This video is more about
her mindset within and around climbing than any one individual climb. Quite the
acheivement for a video featuring some of the best climbs you'll ever see.

## [Beta Break](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLsfWe31L6Quop7WDY7ky711o_Jhp4LKaS)

A series of clips going over how and why athletes broke beta (did something
funky) in a competition. Watch them all. They rock.

## [World's First 9b+](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=edfw9ip9sCQ) - [Adam Ondra](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC8eNyF9eYwgr_K-Nl4gSHWw)

Adam Ondra is stupid strong. Here he climbs the world's first 9b+. Start with
the volume low, he's a screamer.

## [Highlights](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R-7BxsiS0wY) - Janja Garnbret

The competition G.O.A.T. One of the most dominant athletes of any sport
ever. Bonus, she's cool as heck. [Here's a quick interview talking about her
mentality and more](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pZCmsYxHRB8).

## [Floatin](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zIOCIRd8Mxk) - Ryuichi Murai

Narationless, short, all about the climb. And, oh lawdy, what a climb.

## [MEGATRON](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f_MniTA8MYU) - Shawn Raboutou

Shawn Raboutou and his sister are the climbing equivalent of super-soldiers. The
progeny of two already incredible climbers these two were slated for greatness
even when they were gleams in their parent's eyes. Megatron shows Shawn at his
best.

## [1 Minute Knockout](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_dfB2AKxAx0&t=239s) - [Toby Roberts](https://www.youtube.com/@TobyClimbing) (and more)

Great climbs, a cool competition style, and some of the best climbers in the
world. What's not to love?

## [Burden of Dreams](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SlUw8X7xuq0) - Will Bosi

Will Bosi may look like the platonic ideal of an accountant but he could win a
handshake with a gorilla. Here he documents his process sending the hardest
boulder in the world. He does a great job talking through the moves.

## [Worst Rated Gym in Tokyo](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UMs3sHLjRwM) - [Magnus Midtbø](https://www.youtube.com/@magmidt)

Magnus' videos are a bit polarizing as he optimizes for the algorithm but this
one is a gem.

It's hard to understand just how good professional climbers are. It's not like
surfing or skiing where the best are hucking the highest airs, or mashing the
biggest carves. Instead, great climbers make the insurmountable look like a walk
in the park. They'll hit an impossible move with grace, jump off, and say
something like, "that was tricky but the edge is actually pretty incut".

This video was my introduction to the chasm between the pros and mere mortals
and I hope it serves as the same for you.

## [Boogie Til You Poop](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1dJLN43G6KA) - Jason Kruk

It's special to watch the best at their best. It's also special to watch the
best at their worst. This is not a clip about good climbing yet it still manages
to be one of the quintessential climbing clips. Watch it before you show the
youths (it's pretty crass).
